Hi and welcome back.
As well the date time module used to deal with
objects containing both date and time,
we have a date module, and a separate time module.
The dates module is used to deal with dates,
like day of the month, and year, and so forth, not time.
And the time module is used to deal just with times.
So whenever you're running some code,
you can measure the start time and the end time to calculate
the total amount of time it took for the code to run.
That's very useful, for example, when you're wondering
whether doing, whether running one function or another
is going to be more efficient.
So, it's really straightforward.
All you have to do is import time.
Oh, time, there.
Then you can define, for example,
the function you want to time.
Let's define this power function, and then we're gonna
return x to the power of two for x in range limit.
This is gonna generate a list of powers,
and up until the limit that we pass in as a parameter.
We're gonna then say start is time.time.
Again, we're initialising an object of type time,
which lives inside the time module.
And end is going to be time.time, and in between these two,
between the start and the end,
we can put in what we want to time.
Let's say power's 50,000.
So we start a timer.
That tells, well, we don't start a timer.
Sorry about that.
We get the current time, and we
store that in the start variable.
Then we run our function, and the end of the function,
we get the current time, and we
store it on our end variable.
Now we've got the starting time and the ending time.
We can print end - start, and see how long it took.
This should be power.
Let's run it.
As you can see, it took 0.066 seconds
to run this function here.
Notice that is not to run the entire programme,
since we'd only started the timer here
and ended it here, so this time doesn't
include defining the function, dealing with imports,
starting up Python, printing the stuff.
Only the function itself.
Pretty useful when you want to check how long a function
has taken, and just in case you think something's going
very slowly in your programmes, or whether you're wondering
which one is more the efficient, one or the other.
Pretty useful thing to do.
Of course you can create a function,
a higher order function, that will do this timing for you.
Like this measure runtime function.
It's going to take in a function as a parameter.
And what it's going to do is just that.
Time.time at the start.
It's gonna run the function, gonna calculate time.time
at the end, and it's going to print end - start.
Okay.
So now this function here is going to measure
the runtime of func, which is a first class function.
So we can call it measure runtime, and then we can pass it.
The result of calling the power to a limit,
that's a lambda is power 50,000.
Notice how measure runtime takes in a function,
which would be the power function, so.
But of course we cannot pass it any arguments,
'cause as soon as we do 50,000 here,
this runs the function, and then passes the output
of the function to the func variable.
If we want to pass it a function, we'll have to do
lambda, power 50,000, like so.
And then of course we will get the output printed out
so we can run this, and see that it takes
more or less the same amount of time.
So, this thing here, this lambda function, is actually
a workaround to some other technique that we're
gonna look at very soon, that I'm gonna teach you
when we start looking at decorators.
But for now, measure runtime is a high order function,
func is a first class function, and this is a
nice, nifty thing you can use in order to
measure some runtime of your functions.
If you want to time the execution of a small code snippet,
like this one here, you can also
look into the timeit module.
So we can import timeit, and instead of calling
our function manually, you know, and setting our timers,
and so forth, we can use a timeit module to time something.
So that's timeit.timeit, and say x,
to the power of two for x in range 10.
And what this is going to do is
it's going to run this statement here.
Notice how it's a string, because that's
going straight to the timeit function.
Timeit function's gonna setup everything,
and it's going to run the function here.
And then it's going to print it out.
By the way the timeit function is going to run it,
I think it's at 10,000 times by default.
And it's going to calculate the average.
So there you have it, 0.0183.
That's pretty quick.
You can also, of course, try to time it against a map.
So let's map it, map.
Lambda x x**2, range 10.
And see what happens.
This seems to be going very slowly.
It went very slowly, and I thought it was we messed
something up, but now it took 8.3 seconds
instead of 0.something seconds.
I don't think we changed anything.
Very strange.
Very strange indeed.
Anyway, I don't know.
I don't know what happened there.
It took 8.5 seconds before, 7.2 seconds now.
I think this editor here is maybe
not the fastest thing in the world.
You may be better off trying this in your local computers.
But nonetheless, you can see that the map and the function
actually takes much less time than the list comprehension.
So there's something to say definitely for using map,
and in some cases map will be more effective,
in order cases less comprehension will be more effective.
Either way, it's not a big deal.
I know that this looks like a lot, seven times faster,
but it's running at 10,000 times, but if we're running it
like a few times, it doesn't matter.
And but nonetheless, if you're worried about performance,
feel free to time things out and compare them,
and then use whichever's most efficient.
Make sure they do do the same thing, though.
It's no good if one of them's faster than the other,
but they do different things.
Okay, that's it for this video.
Just wanted to show you real quick
how can use the time and timeit modules
to time your code, and see how fast it's running.
I'll see you on the next video.